---
layout: post
title: Week 3
---

Because I joined late, here is a recap on the first 3 weeks of material.
## Week 1

This week focused on the introduction to open source development. We learned about what it means for software to be open source and how to develop it. A big part of open source technology is the contribution from people outside the core devlopers. This can be characterized by the heiarchy of users and contributers which were shown in the slides (the onion model).

Another big part of being open source is having effective methods of communication such as a channel for developers to work out issues and a place for users to ask questions and voice concerns.

Next we learned about version control systems such as Git. There was discussion on the difference between centralized and decentralized VCS (such as git). We spoke about the different functions and terminology of VCS such as pull, commit, push, and branch. The class then zoomed in on the specific cappabilities of Git and how to use it properly from the command line.

We also began working on our extension class activity. (I started this on my own a bit later on)

## Week 2

We began the week discussing the history of open source and how in 1998 the OSI really jumpstarted the open source movement. In it, the license piece of the repository was stressed as the main way to determine which projects of open source. We got to see this practically later on when creating our own open source firefox extensions. 

We also got to talking about the Code of Conduct doc that should be part of every repository and looked at some that come from big projects like Mozilla and Google Go. We spoke about what type of things different communities may want to emphasize when cultivating a respectful community of contributers.

In our in-class-activity projects, we continued learning about firefox extensions and their implementations. I, for instance, began to understand how the different necessary files, like the manifest.json file and the .js file, all interact with each other to create a seemless extension. In addition, we began brainstorming about ideas for our own extensions.

## Week 3

During the third week, the focus of class and our work was mostly on hands-on applications of the material we had learned up until that point. We worked on an in-class exercise to further understand how to interact with git and how to create multiple branches and remotes to work on projects efficiently. We saw how our machines and github accounts responded to issues such as merge conflicts and not pushing our commits at the right time.

This week was also the time to conclude our firefox extensions. My group decided to create "Hype-Tabs" which is an extensions that changes the color of the tab and the area around the URL bar to a random color everytime you click it. We ran into some challenges when working with JavaScript functions we had never seen before but with a team effort with were able to get the code to run. Each of us contributed to different parts of the project whether it be the Code of Conduct file, the License file or the actual code. All in all, it was a pleasure working with my group and it was also a great learning experience in how to community via the proper channels to get our work done in the most efficient way possible. 






