# Week 7 Recap

## Start to project

This past me and my new group began discussions on what open source project we would like to work on for the rest of the semester. We discussed some of our interets and where they overlapped. One of the things that we decided on, was that we would prefer a project that does meaningful work and where we could make legitimate contributions. We also noticed that it was going to be important to have an active developer community where there are current issues being worked on and where discourse is open and constant.

Based off those guiding characteristics we decided to try to joing a project called [kolibri](https://learningequality.org/kolibri/). Kolibri is an educational platform that uses server technology to bring educational programs and applications to areas without internet connectivity. Once they reach an area kolibri does a one-time dowload of their software on as many devices as they can so the people can use them once they leave. The project was just what we were looking for: a project with a mission, an active and nice community, and issues that are constantly being updated by contributers and administrators. Although, many of the issues do not look like they would be suitable for beginners; so we reached out to the administrators of the project to see what the best way for uss to get involved would be. In the meantime, we also explored some backup options, in particular, [Flask](https://flask.palletsprojects.com/en/2.2.x/).

## Contribution Update

Lastly, I would like to mention that I made a new type of contribution this week. I edited one of the previous posts of my peers. They were discussing the project they were working on so I thought it would be helpful to add a link in the markdown file. In addition, I fixed some grammatical mistakes. I went through the process of designating an issue, creating a branch to fix it and making a pull request.

## Looking Forward

After spring break I am anticipating my continuation of making diverse, small contributions on various platforms. I also look forward to hearing more from my group about how they want to approach making the final decision on which project to work on but also on how best to approach choosing issues to work on.


